Your gallbladder is a small,
pear-shaped sac
under the right side of the liver
in the upper right abdomen.
It stores and releases
a digestive liquid
produced by the liver called bile.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy
is a surgical procedure to remove
the gallbladder,
usually because of pain
from hardened deposits of bile
called gallstones.
Small incisions are made in the abdomen,
and surgical instruments and a tiny
camera to view the procedure are inserted.
The gallbladder is held and moved
to expose the cystic duct,
which takes bile
to and from the gallbladder,
and the cystic artery,
which supplies blood to the gallbladder
and cystic duct.
Connective tissue is dissected
and the cystic duct
is clipped several times.
A cut is made between the clips
to free the gallbladder.
The cystic artery
is also clipped and cut.
Because the gallbladder is attached
to the right lobe of the liver,
it also has to be dissected
before being removed,
along with any gallstones.
After the gallbladder has been removed,
a drain may be inserted to prevent
accumulation of fluid at the surgical site.